Okay, so guys, we are doing
really, really, really great.
And in this particular video,
before moving on to this router,
middlewares and all,
let's go back to the modules, right?
Do you remember that we had
a chapter on modules in which
we covered that you have
like built in modules, right?
Built in modules that you can use
like node and something like this,
like using the require function.
Okay, you remember that, right?
Then we have talked about
third party modules, right?
Third party, third party modules.
So third party, modules like
we are using Express,
we are using More of things.
Okay, right now let's cover that.
How can we create our custom
or I can say user defined.
Okay, user defined modules.
So in this particular video, let's
talk about this user defined modules
that how can I have a custom module?
And just for a refresher, if you
remember it was something like I
told you, like require and then you
can do a dot slash or dot slash.
So this is what we are
going to cover today.
Okay, so this is really important
to understand user defined modules
in order to understand the router,
middleware or routers in express.
Okay, so let's create a simple
index js file and okay, so what I
can do is let's say I have
a function, I have a function add.
This add function can take
two numbers A and B
and it returns a plus B.
Very simple function, right?
Similar to this.
Let me just zoom in a little bit
similar to this.
Let's say you have one more function
that is subtract, it takes A and B
and returns you A minus B.
Okay?
Let's say you have one more
function that is multiply.
And so we'll just create
four functions.
So let's say you have
a multiplication function
that is A and B.
And this also returns
a b to multiply.
And then you have a function
for division which takes A and B
and returns a divided by B.
So this is what basically
we have credit.
Now how can you use
this functions, right?
You can use it something like
hey, console log and you can just
say add two and five, right?
So now if you run this particular
code, you can see that
you are getting seven, right?
Similarly you can call
these functions.
Now the problem is or if you see that
if you create all the functionality
in just one file, your file is
getting little bit messy, right?
You have a lot of code
in just one file and this is
not a maintainable code.
So in reality you will have a lot
of functionalities, lot of features.
So usually what we should do
is we should, should Move
the related features
to a module to a separate file.
So what I can do is actually
I can see that these all
functions are related.
Like it's a kind of math operation.
So I can create a separate
file that is math js.
And what I can do is I can
move these all the functions
to this math js file.
Now the question arises that if I try
to now run this particular code, you
will get an error because the add
function is not defined, right?
You are trying to call the add,
and that is not.
That is not defined here.
So how can I bring this add
function to this index js?
So for that you have to use
module, you have to export.
You have to like tell the JavaScript
that hey, there is a function add.
Please export this function add
from here so that
the index file can import it.
Okay, so it's basically like, see
if you want to get something
from usa, let's say, or some
from from some foreign country,
that country should export that
material, then only you can
import it.
If that country is not
exporting that material, you
cannot import it, right?
And if you are not importing,
you cannot use it.
So now how can we export
these functions?
So to export these functions
you have two methods, okay?
You have two ways.
Number one is known as named exports.
Number two is known
as default exports.
Okay, default exports,
so named exports.
Let's first check out
the named exports.
In named exports you can
give your exports a name.
For example, this can be
a different export, this can be
a different export, and this
can be different export.
So to do a named exports.
Do you remember that when we call
node index js or any file, do you
remember that wrapper function?
Do you remember that wrapper function
that internally node js creates
a wrapper function, a function.
Let's say wrapper and it has exports,
it has let's say module,
it has your require function.
It has underscore,
underscore file name.
Okay, file name, it has
underscore, underscore dername.
Do you remember that?
Now here, do you see that?
Here is your source code, right?
Here is your user defined code.
User defined code.
Do you remember that
the first parameter is exports.
So using this exports, you can
actually do a named export.
So what I can do is I have
the exports available here, okay,
Exports is already available here
because of that wrapper function.
So I can just say, hey,
I want to do exports.
Let's give it a name, let's
give it my add function.
I'm just giving It a name
and set it equal to this.
So now what is happening?
This math js file is exporting a name
that is my add function
which is equals to this function.
So we are just exporting one thing.
Now how can we import it here?
So to import you have
to just say const.
Okay, const.
Let's say I'll just call it
as value equals require.
Okay, so let's use
the require function.
Now you can see that we are
not getting the typings.
So for that you know
what we have to do?
So first of all do an npm init
and you have to do npm
install @ the rate types node.
Okay?
So that we have the node
and yeah, this should be dev
dependency, but I have installed
it as a normal dependency.
So let's move it to a dev dependency.
Okay, so yeah, that's fine.
Now in this require if I say dot
dot basically means the current
directory, correct the current
directory slash math.
So what will happen?
There is no need to put js, okay,
because of course we are working
in JavaScript, so that's fine.
So now this value.
Now what is this value?
Let's try to console log.
Okay, Console log the value
and let me just remove it.
So now if I console log the value.
Sorry, node index, node index js.
So what you see that this value
is basically an object
in which you have myadd function,
which is actually a function.
So that means I can
say.myadd function and I
can pass 2 and 5, right?
So what is happening here is
this value is basically whatever you
have named it to this require.
Now this require will
go inside the math.
This math has just one named
export that is my add function
which is equals to this thing.
So this my add function you
are available here, right?
If I name it as add, then here
also you have to say it add.
So what that is exporting.
So now you can see it
will continue to work.
Similarly what you can do is
you can just say exports.
Okay, exports
uh.subtract equals to this.
So so you are now
exporting a subtract also.
So now you can see that you
have add, you have subtract.
Now you are exporting two functions.
So you can just do a subtract.
So this is going to subtract it.
That is negative 3.
Then let's also do it for others
Exports multiply
and you can do exports div.
So now what you have done is you
have done four named exports
in this particular file, right?
And you can see that this value,
whatever you want
to call it, dot, has all those
four functions, correct?
Now, interestingly, okay,
interestingly, what you can do is
like you can call these functions.
That's fine.
We have already seen that.
And even if you don't want
to use this value, you can
destructure it directly here.
So destructure.
So you can see you have add
function, you have multiply
subtraction function, you have
multiplication, you have division.
So now there is no need
to add this value.
You can just directly say add.
Okay, so from where this ad is
coming, this ad is coming from,
from this required, that is do math.
That is this particular ad.
Okay, what if you were having a,
let's say a folder lib.
And in this lib you
had this math js file.
Okay, so what you in this case
you have to say dot slash lib.
Hey, go into the lib folder
and from there get the math.
So you have to give the path,
you have to give the full path.
Got it.
Now let's say just for this
is just for a demonstration
purpose, you have a folder,
let's say, you know, test.
Inside the test folder
you have a folder A.
Inside the A folder
you have a folder B.
And inside the B folder you
have some test js file.
Now this test js file
is doing exports.
Dot xyz equals to I am, xyz string.
So let's say that math js, okay,
math js wants to import this.
So what it has to do.
Okay, see, first of all you have to.
Let's say this is the value require.
See, if you do dot slash you can see
you are getting nothing because you
are currently inside the lib folder.
And do you see any other
file in the lib folder?
No.
Let's create a file, let's say S js.
Okay, now inside the current you
can see that you are getting S.
So dot slash means
in the current directory.
Okay, let me do a dot dot slash.
This goes one directory up.
So that means go one directory up.
That is your root directory.
In the root directory you want
to go into the test.
Inside the test there is a folder
A, inside B and inside test.
And now if you will check the value
for V, you have that XYZ thing here.
So this is how your custom exports,
your user defined modules work.
Got it.
So this was your named exports.
So let me just delete this test
folder, we don't need it.
And let me just bring back the math.
And now I can just say yes,
now VS code is smart.
Enough to automatically
update my index js file.
Okay, so yeah, that's
a VS code feature.
Okay, so this was your named exports.
So for your named export,
okay, so what, what is
the meaning of this thing?
Number one, you have to say exports.
Here you can add the name and then
here you can have the value.
This value can be a function,
string or anything.
And to use it, to use it, what you
have to do is either you can do
a destructuring like require
d dot slash your module name,
okay, whatever is your module name.
So either you can destructure
the name here, or what you can
do is you can just say like const
value or any variable.
I mean, I'm just calling it value.
Let me just copy this and then
you can just call value.whatsoever
name you have given.
So this was your named export, right?
This was your named export.
Now let's see what is
the default export?
Okay, let's see what
is a default export.
Now when you talk about
default export, there can be,
There can be only one default
export in one module.
So one js file can only
contain one default export.
And, default exports don't
have any name, okay?
So default exports do not.
Don't have any name there
because they are default, right?
That's why.
So let me show you what this
particular thing means.
Okay?
So right now, in this particular
module, like I have only
one module that is math js,
you have four named exports.
Let's create a default export.
So for default export you have
to use this module thing.
Do you see this module
in the wrapper function?
This module is used to do
a default export, okay?
So you can just say module.exports
and some value.
Okay, so let's say my default
export is a function, okay?
It's a function that
says console dot log.
Hey, I am, default.
So now what will happen is if I go
back now, this is a default export.
This one is a default export.
Default fault.
Now what will happen if I go back?
If you're destructuring something,
these are coming from the named.
But if I just say anything like
xyz, okay, am I giving anything?
So by default this will actually
point to the default export.
By default, this will actually
point to that default export.
You can name it as anything.
Seriously, like you can
just name it anything.
And by default it will always point
to that default export.
For the rest, you can
just destructure them.
Add, multiply.
So see what is happening right now
here is that the default export.
If you just give any
value here Right?
You are not specifying that what
you want to export, right?
You are not specifying.
So what happens is JavaScript
gives you the default
exported member that.
Hey, you are just saying,
hey Math, can you please
give me the default export?
Right, Math will say, hey, by default
I just have this default export.
So this will give you
the access to the value.
So now you can see that you
are getting the value only.
But rest are named exports, right?
They have a name.
So if you specify
the name, let's say div.
So this will only give you the div.
But because that's
a named export, okay?
Div is not a function.
Oh, just was just one second.
So this is what, this
is a named export.
Okay?
So like you can say but for
the named export, because this
is a named export, right?
These are named exports.
So now what you can do, you
can export them with the name.
For example, there's a ad name.
Okay, just remove this.
So there is a add name,
there's a div name.
So that, that is the difference
between default
export and named export.
So for named exports you have
to, you, you get all the names,
so you get an object back.
But if there is a default
export, the default exports
don't have any name.
You can just name it anything
when you are importing them.
So that's a default export.
So this is how your
custom modules work.
So moving further in our project, in
that bookstore project, we are going
to refactor that particular thing to
be a module where we can split the
code across the files so that our
code is more clean and more
maintainable.
So I'll meet you in the next video.
Until then, bye bye and take care.